Update usaco-809.mdx (#2823)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/usaco-809.mdx

id: usaco-809
source: USACO Bronze 2018 Febuary
title: Taming the Herd
author: Sathvik Chundru, Aditya Gupta
---

[Official Analysis (C++)](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_taming_bronze_feb18.html)

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N)$

<LanguageSection>
	
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <bits/stdc++.h>

using namespace std;

int main() {
	freopen("taming.in", "r", stdin);
	freopen("taming.out", "w", stdout);
	int n;

> 	bool valid = true;

Reviewer: put this somewhere else since it looks awkward sandwiched between the inputs

	cin >> n;
	/*
	 * A status of 2 means a breakout happened on day n.
	 * A status of 1 means a breakout did not happen on day n.
	 * A status of 0 means we are not sure what happened on day n.
	 */

> 	int status[n] = {0};

Reviewer: according to code conventions, variable length arrays are not a part of the C++ Standard. Use vector or equivalent.

Reviewer: also for other arrays

> 	status[0] == 2;  // first day is a special case

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	status[0] == 2;  // a breakout must occur on the first day
```

	int log[n];  // log for each day
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		cin >> log[i];
	}
	if (log[0] == 1) {
		valid = false; // we found a discrepancy
	} else {
		status[0] = 2; // the problem says the first day had a breakout
	}
	
	// we go through our log, updating our status array accordingly
	for (int i = 1; i < n; i++) {
		if (!valid) break;

> 		int curr_n = log[i];

Reviewer: use a better variable name than ```curr_n``` since having that name doesn't tell me anything

		if (curr_n == -1) {
	        	continue; // we have no log for this day, so we continue to the next day
        	} else if (curr_n == 0) {
			status[i] = 2; // this means that we have a breakout on this day
        	} else {
			// we now process the curr_n days, checking for discrepancies along the way
			status[i] = 1; // the current day does not have a breakout
			int curr_index = i - 1;
			curr_n--;

>             		while(curr_n > 0 && curr_index > -1){

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            		while (curr_n > 0 && curr_index > -1) {
```

                		if (status[curr_index] == 0 || status[curr_index] == 1) {
                    			status[curr_index] = 1;
                		} else {
                    			// we found a discrepancy
                    			valid = false;
                    			break;
                		}
                		curr_n--;
                		curr_index--;
            		}

> 			// we check the day that the log tells us a breakout happened on

Reviewer: weird wording lmao

			if (curr_index > -1 && (status[curr_index] == 0 || status[curr_index] == 2)) {
				status[curr_index] = 2;
			}

> 			else valid = false; // we found a discrepancy

Reviewer 2: braces (same for other `else` statements)

		}
	}
	int min_ans = 0;
	int max_ans = 0;
    	// print the correct answer based on whether the log is consistent
    	if (valid) {

>         	for (auto i: status) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        	for (int i: status) {
```
its not that hard lmao

			if(i == 2) {
				// days that have a status of 2 are breakouts, so they count in both answers
				min_ans++;
				max_ans++;
			}

>         		else if (i == 0) max_ans++; // days with no required status are assumed to have a breakout for max_ans

Reviewer 2: over 80 chars (that's what it says in our style guide i think)

id: usaco-809
source: USACO Bronze 2018 Febuary
title: Taming the Herd
author: Sathvik Chundru, Aditya Gupta
---

[Official Analysis (C++)](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_taming_bronze_feb18.html)

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N)$

<LanguageSection>
	
<CPPSection>

```cpp

> #include <iostream>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
already used bits

Reviewer 2: not fixed

Author: I must have missed this, fixed it now.

#include <bits/stdc++.h>

using namespace std;

int main()
{
	freopen("taming.in", "r", stdin);
	freopen("taming.out", "w", stdout);

> 	int n, min_ans = 0, max_ans = 0;

Reviewer 2: assignments on separate lines
also declare variables where you actually use them, `min_ans` isn't used until like way later in the code

	bool valid = true;
	cin >> n;
	/*
	 * A status of 2 means a breakout happened on day n.
	 * A status of 1 means a breakout did not happen on day n.
	 * A status of 0 means we are not sure what happened on day n.
	 */
	int status[n] = {0};
	status[0] == 2; //first day is a special case

> 	int log[n]; // log for each day

Reviewer 2: just use a vector
also do 2 spaces after code for comments like this:
```suggestion
	int log[n];  // log for each day
```

Reviewer 2: unresolved

> 	for(int i = 0; i < n; i++){

Reviewer 2: spaces for control flow statements like this:
```suggestion
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
```

Reviewer 2: unresolved

	bool valid = true;
	if (log[0] == 1) {

> 		valid = false; // we found a discrepancy

Reviewer 3: 2 spaces

	} else {
		status[0] = 2; // the problem says the first day had a breakout
	}
	

> 	// we go through our log, updating our status array accordingly

Reviewer 3: unnecessary

Author: what part?

Reviewer 2: the comment, it states the obvious

	for (int i = 1; i < n; i++) {

> 		if (!valid) break;

Reviewer 3: braces

		int curr_n = log[i];
		if(curr_n == -1){
	        	continue; // we have no log for this day, so we continue to the next day

>         	}
> 		else if(curr_n == 0){

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        	} else if (curr_n == 0) {
```
also some of the indentation is in spaces?

Reviewer 2: unresolved

			status[i] = 2; // this means that we have a breakout on this day

>         	}
> 		else{

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        	} else {
```

> 			log[i]--;

Reviewer: explain this whole loop. How does these conditions work?

Reviewer: actually never mind it’s kind of self explanatory lol

Author: Yea, I was about to say, lol

			status[i] = 1; // the current day does not have a breakout
			int curr_index = i - 1;
			curr_n--;
            		while(curr_n > 0 && curr_index > -1){
                		if(status[curr_index] == 0 || status[curr_index] == 1){
                    			status[curr_index] = 1;
                		}

>                 		else{

Reviewer 2: yeah you know

                		log[i]--;
                		curr_index--;

>             		}

Reviewer 3: fix indentation

			// we check the day that the current log says a breakout happened on
			if (curr_index > -1 && (status[curr_index] == 0 || status[curr_index] == 2)) {
				status[curr_index] = 2;
			} else {
				valid = false; // we found a discrepancy
			}
		}
	}
	int min_ans = 0;
	int max_ans = 0;
    	// print the correct answer based on whether the log is consistent
    	if (valid) {

>         	for (int i: status) {

Reviewer 3: space out

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        	for (int i : status) {
```

        	for(auto i: status){
			if(i == 2) {
				// days that have a status of 2 are breakouts for sure, so they count in both answers
				min_ans++;
				max_ans++;
			}

>         		else if(i == 0) max_ans++; // for days with no required status, we can assume they have a breakout for our max_ans

Reviewer 2: over 80 chars

		}
		cout << min_ans << " " << max_ans << "\n";
	} else {

> 		cout << -1 << "\n"; // there is no valid sequence

Reviewer 3: prefer chars for one space + endl, but completely uty

>     	else cout << -1 << "\n"; // there is no valid sequence

Reviewer 2: braces

Reviewer 2: not really
braces make it easier to see what's going on

>     	return 0;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

id: usaco-809
source: USACO Bronze 2018 Febuary
title: Taming the Herd
author: Sathvik Chundru, Aditya Gupta
---

[Official Analysis (C++)](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_taming_bronze_feb18.html)

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N)$

<LanguageSection>
	
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <bits/stdc++.h>

using namespace std;

int main() {
	freopen("taming.in", "r", stdin);
	freopen("taming.out", "w", stdout);
	int n;
	cin >> n;
	/*
	 * A status of 2 means a breakout happened on day n.
	 * A status of 1 means a breakout did not happen on day n.
	 * A status of 0 means we are not sure what happened on day n.
	 */
	vector<int> status(n,0);
	status[0] == 2;  // a breakout must occur on the first day
	vector<int> log(n);  // log for each day
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		cin >> log[i];
	}
	bool valid = true;
	if (log[0] == 1) {
		valid = false; // we found a discrepancy
	} else {
		status[0] = 2; // the problem says the first day had a breakout
	}
	
	// we go through our log, updating our status array accordingly
	for (int i = 1; i < n; i++) {
		if (!valid) break;

> 		int curr_n = log[i];  // the current day's log

Author: What would you like me to change it to?

> 		int curr_n = log[i];  // the current day's log

Reviewer: whatever you think better represents the variable is tracking than ```curr_n```

> 		int curr_n = log[i];  // the current day's log

Author: Alright, I don't even think we need a variable actually lol

> 		int curr_n = log[i];  // the current day's log

Reviewer: i think it’s better if you do use a variable because it’ll be easier to see what’s going on. @SansPapyrus683 do you have any thoughts?

> 		int curr_n = log[i];  // the current day's log

Author: I feel like its fairly obvious in the problem what the purpose of using the log[i] is, and when it's not, I provided comments. Don't you think? If not, then, please tell me what you want the variable name to be, since it seems relatively easy to understand for the reader.

id: usaco-809
source: USACO Bronze 2018 Febuary
title: Taming the Herd
author: Sathvik Chundru, Aditya Gupta
---

[Official Analysis (C++)](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_taming_bronze_feb18.html)

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N)$

<LanguageSection>
	
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <bits/stdc++.h>

using namespace std;

int main() {
	freopen("taming.in", "r", stdin);
	freopen("taming.out", "w", stdout);
	int n;
	cin >> n;
	/*
	 * A status of 2 means a breakout happened on day n.
	 * A status of 1 means a breakout did not happen on day n.
	 * A status of 0 means we are not sure what happened on day n.
	 */
	vector<int> status(n, 0);

> 	status[0] == 2;  // a breakout must occur on the first day

Reviewer 2: this line does nothing?

Author: which line? line 33 is because the problem says day 1 has a breakout

Reviewer 2: no like that line doesn't do anything
did you mean `==` instead of `=`?

Author: Just fixed that, I think I already did that somewhere else in the code and forgot to delete this line.
